A conversation
==============

A [conversation](mapping/conversation.md) about computation and cosmogeny between `af` & `mg`

* `mg`: So, what are we actually trying to do here?
* `af`: I think we are picking up from were people thinking about computers in the 60s left, because now the web as a medium and as a [material](mapping/material.md) to build things has evolved so much you can actually implement those ideas, imo
* `mg`: Okay let's start from there. I think in 60s counterculture there are several lines of thought that come together. It's interesting that as a movement it happened between the 'end' of Modernity and the 'rise' of Post-Modernity in the 80s. [Hippie modernists](mapping/hippie-modernism.md) seem to be in this [in-between](mapping/meta.md) state where there is a yearning for a kind of techno-utopian future, but at the same time an awareness of the ecological and perhaps a rejection of the idea of technology as progress. Computers and the web bind all this together. Up until that point computation was seen as a tool of centralized power. A lot of the 60s design and architecture is focussed on this idea of 'democratizing' tools, perhaps as a way of self-sufficiency, or maybe as a form of resistance.
* `af`: For some reasons my mind was mostly attracted to this era because of many technical experiments that then never took shape and for the most part were shadowed (or abandoned) by the rising of the Personal Computer as an office appliance; the rhetoric of simplifying programmers tools into white-collar application, etc. It’s good though that you opened up already the conversation to a larger scale, so we can move between other things. Therefore, I will re-open up the center point of cybernetics discourse from an [article by Luciana Parisi](quotes/instrumentality.md).
* `mg`: The practical implication of Turing [completeness](mapping/universality.md) is that computers are a kind of "everything machine": A computer can be used to represent basically anything. So especially if that thing is essentially just representation in itself, a typewriter or a television for example, you can just replace that thing with a computer. It's an idea that is easy to explain and sell; just take a thing that allready exists, computerize it, and call it innovation. Let's take an example, If your question is "How can we put writing into a computer?", the result is the modern wordprocessor: you're fundamentally stuck with this skeuomorphic metaphor of the typewriter/paper. But of course a computer is not a typewriter, it can do a lot more than a typewriter can, typesetting and layout for example. So you pile on all these functionalities, and it's this amazing program that can do *anything* you want. But actually it's not so straightforward, because typesetting is not writing, they are different types of activities. I think that's why there is now this resurgence of "minimalist" writing programs like markdown etc. It's an attempt to pull these mental processes apart agian, because mixing them supposedly distracts you from a 'real' or 'authentic' writing experience. But I guess it misses the point too, I think the question should actually be: "How can we put computers into writing?". There is no 'authentic' process, there is only a *co-causal interaction* between you and your environment. That's what a lot of the more interesting 60s expermiments were trying to figure out, but it's a lot harder to reason about, let alone sell. Computers are just the program they run, and a program is just whatever the program "does". For a large part, what a program 'does' is entirely contingent on [observation](quotes/observers.md). Sitting in front of a blank computer is not like sitting in front of a blank piece of paper, because first you have to create the paper, it's this kind of medium-of-mediums that loops in on itself. There's a link here to cybernetics and the article you quoted, but I was wandering if you could explain a bit more your thoughts on it first?
